# Introduction {-}

Nowadays, data is an important source of information. Statistical
data analysis techniques are permanently evolving due to the presence
of new types of data in real-life studies and the development of tools to analyze
more complex types of data. The presence of interval data sets is becoming 
common in data analysis problems. This type of data represents either the uncertainty existing in an error measurement or the natural variability present in the data or derive from the aggregation of huge databases into a compact number of groups [@BockDiday2000], [@BillardDiday2006], [@DidayNoirhomme2008]. Interval data can be found in some fields such as engineering, economy, medicine, among others. Furthermore, technical specification, temperatures in meteorological stations and daily stock prices are examples of possible interval-valued variables. Therefore, statistical tools to analyze interval-valued data are very much required.


Some regression methods for modeling interval data have been proposed in the literature.
Several of these methods study the problem itself from an optimization point of view 
[@BillardDiday2000], [@LimaNetoDeCarvalho2008], [@MaiaDeCarvalho2008], [@LimaNetoDeCarvalho2010], [@Xu2010,Wangetal2012]. Other methods, however, consider the principles of set arithmetic algebra to obtain a linear regression model for interval data @Giletal2007 and @Fernandezetal2011. In the last years, new regression methods for interval data have taken into account a probabilistic background for the dependent interval variable $Z$  [@QSC2011], [@BD2012], [@FSC2013], [@SunLi2014]. 

[@LimaNetoetal2011] presented an approach based on the generalized linear models theory, called bivariate symbolic regression method (BSRM). They consider the interval response variable $Z = [Y_{L}, Y_{U}]$ as a bivariate random vector with joint distribution belonging to the continuous bivariate exponential family [@IT2005]. Moreover, the BSRM allows the use of inference procedures for the parameter estimates, goodness-of-fit tests and residual analyses. This fact represents an advantage of the BSRM in comparison with the methods based on optimization point of view or set arithmetic algebra principles.  


This paper introduces the **R** [@R2015] package **iRegression** [@iRegression2012] available from the Comprehensive R Archive Network at [iRegression](http://CRAN.r-project.org/package=iRegression). The package implements important regression methods for interval-valued variables, namely: center method [@BillardDiday2000], center and range method [@LimaNetoDeCarvalho2008], constrained center and range method [@LimaNetoDeCarvalho2010], min-max method and the bivariate symbolic regression method [@LimaNetoetal2011].  The fitted values, residuals and goodness-of-fit measures are available for each method. Real-life data sets also are ready to use in the package. Currently, there are other packages to analyze interval variables. The package **ISDA.R** [@ISDA] presents descriptive statistics and visualization techniques for interval variables. The packages **RSDA** [@RSDA] and **GPCSIV** [@GPCSIV] consider principal component analysis (PCA) approaches for interval data. The package **MAINT.Data** [@MAINT] brings multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) and discriminant analysis for interval data. The package **symbolicDA** [@symbolicDA] implements several multivariate techniques for interval variables (similarity and dissimilarity measures, clustering methods, principal component analysis, kernel discriminant analysis), decision trees and visualization techniques. It is important to mention that the package **iRegression** was the first one available on CRAN to analyse interval variables. Moreover, in the version $1.2$ was included the function `bivar()` that represents the first regression model with a probabilistic background for interval variables, being possible the use of inferential procedures and residual analysis in order to validate the model. 

This article is organized as follows: Section 2 details the bivariate symbolic regression method, the parameter estimates algorithm, inference aspects, goodness-of-fit and residual measures. A description of the **iRegression** package is presented in Section 3. An application to real-life data set is demonstrated in Section 4. Finally, in Section 5 we conclude the paper with some remarks. 
